S.
The reason we have not written to you for a long time is that Father Comander has been extremely busy, often preaching; for I have been severely afflicted by fever and pleurisy for almost three weeks, which left him with many labors.

But we know that you also had much to do during this time.

Now, by God's grace, I have recovered, although I am not yet strong. Nevertheless, I am able to preach and sufficiently fulfill the duties of my office.

Thanks be to God, who has given me back to my children; may I also be useful to others!

There is absolutely no news from us, so much so that we are astonished at how quiet and peaceful everything remains—except for this: we have heard repeatedly that the princes of Germany, as well as Ferdinand, the Roman King, and the Duke of Bavaria, have gathered and unanimously petitioned Emperor Charles to allow a council to be convened in Germany, excluding Italians and Spanish clergy, to remove all Spanish and foreign soldiers from Germany, and to restore the Swabian League.

What his response has been, we have not yet heard.

Some say he has granted all their requests and intends to return to Spain; others affirm that he has finally passed away.

Merchants of my region, returning from Italy, report that in Milan they saw a certain satirical placard, which depicted Ferdinand, the Roman King, riding a skinny and emaciated horse, resembling a beggar; the Emperor riding backward on a crab; the King of France proudly charging on a wild, unbridled horse; the Venetians standing with ears pricked, awaiting the outcome; and the Turk observing all of this, laughing uncontrollably.

I wished to write this so you would not complain that I have written nothing.

But take this also: a few days ago, a certain preacher, Brother Joachim Gachlinger, came to us. We sent him in good faith to a certain church to test him, to see what kind of person he is and how he conducts himself.

The church approves of him; however, we have become suspicious of him simply because he has neither written to us, as we instructed and he promised, nor come to us, even when he was in town.

Therefore, out of your loyalty and care for Christ's churches and for us, please write to us about what kind of man he is and how faithfully he has conducted himself among you.

We will send our decisions in eight days, once we have received more certain news.

Father Comander, Heimius—who has now fully recovered—and others you know send their warmest greetings.

Farewell in the Lord Jesus, most esteemed man, and do not cease to love us in return.

Given in Chur, the tenth day of April in the year 1553.

Yours in integrity,
Entirely yours,
Philippus Gallicius

To the great man, Lord Heinrich Bullinger, his most esteemed master, in Zurich.